♪♪
>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MAY 4th, THE LATEST ON THE
CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, NEARLY
SIX YEARS LATER, HOW THE
FINANCIAL MELTDOWN ON WALL
STREET IS STILL AFFECTING LIFE
ON MAIN STREET
>> FUNDAMENTALLY IF THIS IS HO
THE FDIC IS PROTECTING US, I
DON'T NEED THESE KIND OF
PROTECTIONS.
>> AND THE LATEST ON THE AW THEN
TIS THETY OF A DOCUMENT THAT
MENTIONS JESUS' WIFE
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE STUDIOS AT LINCOL
CENTER IN NEW YORK HAR
SREENIVASAN.
>> MORE UPHEAVAL IN ODESSA WHERE
DOZENS DIED AFTER A CLASH FRIDAY
BETWEEN PRO-RUSSIANS AND
PRO-UKRAINIAN MILITANTS.
30 PRO-RUSSIAN ACTIVISTS WER
SET FREE
THE PRIME MINISTER OF UKRAIN
VISITED THE CITY TODAY AND
CALLED THE DEATHS FRIDAY A
TRAGEDY FOR ALL UKRAINIANS
ALL THIS IS OCCURRING HUNDREDS
OF MILES FROM THE EAST OF TH
COUNTRY WHERE FORCES HAVE BEEN
BATTLING PRO-RUSSIAN MILITIAS.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS GROWIN
INTERNATIONAL CRISIS WE'RE
JOINING BY PETER LEONARD OF TH
ASSOCIATED PRESS IN THE CITY O
DONETSK, ONE OF THE KEY SITES OF
THE PRO-RUSSIAN UPRISING
WHAT'S THE SITUATION ON TH
GROUND WHERE YOU ARE
>> WELL, THE SITUATION SOM
HUNDRED KILOMETERS FROM HERE I
THAT THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMEN
FORCES HAVE CONTINUED OPERATIONS
TO TRY AND EXPUNGE
ANTI-GOVERNMENT FORCES
IN THE MEANTIME, HOWEVER, IN
VARIOUS CITIES AND TOWNS ACROS
EASTERN UKRAINE INCLUDIN
DONETSK ITSELF, THE GOVERNMENT
OFFICES CONTINUES UNABATED
ONLY TODAY, FOR INSTANCE, IN
DONETSK A CROWD OF SEVERAL
HUNDRED PEOPLE STORMED A
MILITARY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE
WE'VE SEEN SIMILAR SUCH ACTION
TAKING PLACE IN DONETSK AN
OTHER PLACES OVER THE LAST FEW
DAYS AND WEEKS
>> ARE YOU SEEING THE UKRAINIA
ARMY PUSH BACK
>> WELL, IT'S A SORT OF A GAME
OF CAT AND MOUSE
EVERY TIME THE UKRAINIAN ARM
LOOKS POISED TO MAKE SERIOUS
INCURSIONS INTO THE CENTER O
THE ARMED INSURGENCY, IT SEEMS
TO TAKE A STEP BACK OR JUST HOLD
ITS POSITIONS.
SO IT'S VERY HARD TO BE SPECIFIC
ABOUT ANY EXACT DYNAMIC.
AT THE MOMENT, IT'S A TENS
BALANCE, I WOULD SAY
>> DO THEY LOOK LIKE THEY'RE
HERE FOR THE LONG HAUL, ARE THEY
SETTING UP ANY SORT OF BUNKERS
OR PERIMETERS, I MEAN, THE
UKRAINIAN ARMY
>> THE UKRAINIAN ARMY SO FAR
SEEMS TO BE FOCUSING ITS EFFORTS
ON CREATING A SECURITY CORDO
AROUND THE TOWN OF WHAT'
UNCLEAR IF THEY WILL MAK
INCURSIONS INTO THE TOWN AND
RESTORE IT TO GOVERNMENT
CONTROL.
THAT WE HAVE NO CLEAR PICTUR
ABOUT.
>> YOU SAY THERE'S INCREASED
TENSION.
ARE PEOPLE IN YOUR TOWN, I
DONETSK FEELING LIKE WAR I
IMMINENT
>> WAR MAY BE OVERSTATING IT
BUT THERE'S A SENSE OF PERMANENT
UNREST THAT JUST HANGS VER
HEAVILY IN THE AIR
BUT CERTAINLY IT'S DOING NOBOD
ANY GOOD
>> JOINING US LIVE FROM DONETSK,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>>> THE FERRY THAT SANK OFF TH
COAST OF SOUTH KOREA LAST MONT
ROUTINELY TRAVELED WITH MUCH
MORE CARGO THAN SHIPPING EXPERTS
HAD DEEMED SAFE.
THIS ACCORDING TO NEWLY RELEASED
RECORDS.
THOSE RECORDS ALSO REVEALED TH
FERRY NEVER CARRIED AS MUC
CARGO AS ON THE DAY THAT I
SANK
FOUR TIMES MORE THAN THE LIMIT
THAT HAD BEEN SET.
15 SURVIVING CREW MEMBERS HAVE
BEEN ARRESTED.
>>> IN NORTHERN IRELAND TODA
GERRY ADAMS WAS RELEASED FRO
POLICE CUSTODY WITHOUT BEING
CHARGED AFTER FIVE DAYS OF
QUESTIONING ABOUT HIS ROLE IN
1972 MURDER OF A MOTHER OF TEN
ADAMS WAS ARRESTED WEDNESDAY
HE MAINTAINS HIS INNOCENCE
TWO FORMER I.R.A. MEMBERS HAVE
SAID ADAMS WAS INVOLVED IN THE
KILLING.
THE CASE IS BEING CLOSEL
WATCHED BECAUSE OF FEARS I
COULD UNDUE THE 199LE PEAC
ACCORD THAT UNDID DECADES OF
VIOLENCE BETWEEN PROTESTANTS AND
CATHOLICS.
>>> IN KENYA TWO PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND SEVERAL DOZEN WOUNDED
AFTER BOMBS WENT OFF ON TW
CROWDED BUSES.
FOUR OTHERS WERE KILLED IN A
SERIES OF APPARENTLY COORDINATED
BOMBINGS YESTERDAY
KENYA HAS BEEN UNDER SIEGE SINCE
IT SENT TROOPS TO FIGH
ISLAMISTS IN 2011.
THE MOST DEADLY INCIDENT
OCCURRED LAST SEPTEMBER WHEN 6
PEOPLE DIED AFTER AN EXTREMIST
ATTACK ON A MALL IN NAIROBI.
>>> YEMENI GOVERNMENT FORCES SAY
THEY KILLED 37 ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS THERE TODAY AFTER
LAUNCHING AN OFFENSIVE
JUST YESTERDAY SIX SOLDIERS WERE
KILLED BY A SUICIDE BOMBER
THE NUMBER OF ATTACKS AGAINS
SECURITY FORCES IN YEMEN HAV
INCREASED AFTER U.S. DRONE
STRIKES KILLED DOZENS OF
AL QAEDA MILITANT LAST MONTH
HEAVY FIGHTING AMONG RIVAL
ISLAMIST GROUPS IN SYRIA HAS LED
TO THE MASS EXODUS OF TENS O
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
THE FIGHTING IS BETWEEN TW
GROUPS BOTH AFFILIATED WIT
AL QAEDA
THE REBELS SEIZED THE AREA NEA
IRAQ FROM FORCES LOYAL TO BASHAR
AL ASSAD TWO YEARS AGO
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, GM I
RECALLING MORE THAN 50,000 SUVs.
THE COMPANY SAYS THE VEHICLE
HAVE FAULTY FUEL GAUGES THAT
COULD CAUSE DRIVERS TO RUN OUT
OF GAS
THE COMPANY HAS RECALLED ABOUT 7
MILLION VEHICLES THIS YEAR AND
IS UNDER FEDERAL INVESTIGATION
FOR DELAYING A RECALL A FAULTY
EMISSIONS SWITCH
>>> THAT HEALTH CARE WORKE
HOSPITALIZED IN INDIANA WITH THE
FIRST KNOWN CASE IN THIS COUNTRY
OF THE MRS VIRUS MIDDLE EAST
RESPIRATORY SYNDROME IS OFTE
FATAL ACCORDING TO THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS AROUND 40
PEOPLE HAVE CONTRACTED THE
ILLNESS AND 100 HAVE DIED SINC
THE OUTBREAK OCCURRED TWO YEAR
AGO IN SAUDI ARABIA.
THE HOSPITALIZED MAN HAD JUS
RETURNED FROM THERE.
>>> THE FIRST OPENLY GAY
EPISCOPAL BISHOP IS GETTING
DIVORCE.
BISH OL JEAN ROBINSON MADE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT WHERE HE SERVED FOR
NEARLY A DECADE BEFORE RETIRING.
HE AND HIS PARTNER HAD ENTERED A
CIVIL UNION IN 2008, THE
MARRIED AFTER NEW HAMPSHIR
LEGALIZED GAY MARRIAGE IN 2010
ROBINSON'S ELECTION AS BISHOP IN
2003 HAD PROMPTED SOME EPISCOPAL
DIOCESE AND PARISHES TO BREA
AWAY AND ESTABLISH THE ANGLICA
CHURCH IN NORTH AMERICA.
OBINSON WROTE TODAY ALL OF U
INTEND WHEN TAKING WEDDING VOW
TO LIVE UP TO THE IDEAL TILL
DEATH DO US PART BUT NOT ALL O
US ARE ABLE TO SEE THIS THROUG
UNTIL DEATH INDEED PARTS US.
>>> THE FIRST AFRICAN-AMERICAN
REPORTER TO ATTEND A
PRESIDENTIAL NEWS CONFERENCE WAS
HONORED LAST NIGHT AT THE WHIT
HOUSE CORRESPONDENTS
ASSOCIATION DINNER
HE BROKE THE COLOR BARRIER I
1944 WHEN FRANKLIN DELAN
ROOSEVELT WAS PRESIDENT.
AFTER THE OVAL OFFICE GATHERIN
HE SHOOK HIS HAND AND SAID I'M
GLAD TO SEE YOU AND GLAD TO SE
YOU HERE
A SCHOLARSHIP HAS BEEN SET UP TO
HONOR HIM.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
REVERBERATIONS OF THE 2008
FINANCIAL CRISIS
FOLLOWING THE HOUSING BUST
CONGRESS PASSED LEGISLATION TO
HELP STRUGGLING HOMEOWNERS KEE
THEIR PROPERTY BY ENABLING THE
TO MODIFY THEIR MORTGAGES.
BUT NO SUCH LEGISLATION HA
PASSED TO PROTECT THE OWNERS O
SMALL BUSINESSES THAT GOT INTO
FINANCIAL TROUBLE THEN AND SOM
OF THESE FACED A SECON
CHALLENGE AFTER THE BANK
HOLDING THEIR LOANS FAILED AND
HEDGE FUNDS BOUGHT THE LOANS
"NEWSHOUR" SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
RICK CARR INVESTIGATES
>> JESSE HAS A LOT OF EXPERIENCE
BUYING RUNDOWN BUILDINGS IN EDGY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
FIXING THEM UP AND OPENING BARS,
RESTAURANTS AND CLUBS IN THEM.
IT'S HIS BUSINESS MODEL AND HI
PASSION.
>> I SEE, FOR INSTANCE,
BUILDING LIKE THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CONTRIBUT
SOMETHING TO THE COMMUNITY I
ADDITION TO MYSELF
AS THE BUSINESSES AROUND ME AR
GROWING AND BEING MORE
SUCCESSFUL, MY BUSINESS IS MOR
SUCCESSFUL
THIS IS BASIC ECONOMICS.
>> HE'S BEEN LAUDED BY THE CIT
OF DENVER FOR HELPING TO REVIV
A FEW NEIGHBORHOODS THERE.
HE STARTED OUT REHABBING OLD
THEATERS WHEN HE WAS A CONCERT
PROMOTER
THAT'S WHEN I FIRST INTERVIEWE
HIM.
HE BOUGHT THIS BUILDING IN 200
AND OPENED A COUPLE OF
RESTAURANTS ON THE GROUND FLOOR.
HE DREAMED OF CONVERTING THE
UPPER FLOORS INTO A LUXURY HOTEL
BUT AS THE RESTAURANT STARTED TO
ATTRACT CROWDS, THE HOTE
PROJECT RAN INTO TROUBLE WIT
CITY INSPECTORS AND HIS BUSINESS
PLAN DERAILED.
YOUR COMPANY WAS WOUNDED, BU
WAS IT A MORTAL WOUND IN YOU
OPINION?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
IT WAS A DISTRESSED PERIOD
MANAGEABLE ISSUES, CURABLE
ISSUES
>> ONE REASON HE WAS OPTIMISTI
IS THE RELATIONSHIP HE HAD WIT
HIS BANK
FIRST TIER BANK HAD PROVIDED
MOST OF THE FINANCING FOR TH
HOTEL.
IT WAS SMALL SO TOP EXECUTIVES
GOT INVOLVED
THE BANK GAVE HIM MILLIONS O
DOLLARS IN LOANS
HE GAVE THE BANK ALL OF HI
BUSINESS, CREDIT CAR
TRANSACTIONS, CHECKING ACCOUNTS,
EVERYTHING
HE THOUGHT OF HIS BANKERS ALMOST
AS IF THEY WERE HIS PARTNERS
>> IF WE HAD A CASH FLOW
PROBLEM, I'D GO TALK TO THE BANK
PRESIDENT AND HE WOULD B
ACCOMMODATING TO THAT BECAUS
THEY HAD A VESTED INTEREST I
MAKING SURE THAT THIS SMAL
BUSINESS AND THEIR CUSTOMER WA
SUCCESSFUL
>> REMEMBER LAST YEAR WHEN
THINGS WEREN'T GOING SO WELL
YOU DIDN'T LOSE YOUR HOUSE
YOU THINK POTTER WOULD HAVE LE
YOU KEEP IT?
>> IT'S THE WAGE GEORGE BAILEY
DID BUSINESS IN THE FILM "IT'S A
WONDERFUL LIFE."
OLD FASHIONED PERSONAL BANKING
WHEN JESSE WENT TO FIRST TIER TO
TALK ABOUT A LOAN MODIFICATION
TO DELAY PAYMENTS TO DEAL WITH
THE PROBLEM AND GET THE BUSINESS
BACK ON TRACK, THE BANK HA
INCENTIVES TO BE FLEXIBLE.
AT LEAST IT DID UNTIL TH
FINANCIAL CRISIS CAME AND FIRS
TIER FAILED.
HUNDREDS OF BANKS WENT UNDER
DURING THE FINANCIAL CRISIS AN
BUSINESSPEOPLE LIKE JESSE LOST
THE BANKERS THEY'D BEEN DOIN
BUSINESS WITH IN SOME CASES FO
YEARS.
THEY FOUND THEMSELVES DOIN
BUSINESS WITH STRANGERS WH
DIDN'T HAVE A VESTED INTEREST IN
MAKING SURE THEY WER
SUCCESSFUL
ON A FRIDAY NIGHT IN JANUARY
2011 JESSE LEARNED THA
REGULATOR HS SHUT DOWN FIRST
TIER AND THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT
INSURANCE CORPORATION HAD TAKE
OVER
AND FROM THAT DAY ON, IT WAS A
NIGHTMARE.
AND FOR A WHILE, WE HA
EMPLOYEES WHO COULDN'T CAS
THEIR PAYCHECKS.
IT WAS A MESS.
>> MEANWHILE, HE WAS GETTING
LETTERS ABOUT THE LOAN FOR THE
HOTEL PROJECT FROM THE FDIC AN
OTHERS
EACH ONE LEFT HIM WITH A
DIFFERENT IMPRESSION OF WHO WA
IN CHARGE OF THE LOAN HE'D BEE
TRYING TO MODIFY
>> WE DIDN'T KNOW WHO TO WRITE
THE CHECKS TO.
WE'D CHANGE THE ADDRESSES YO
SEND THEM TO, THEY CHANG
EVERYTHING
EACH AND EVERY TIME WE'D HAVE TO
GO THROUGH THIS FIRE DRILL WIT
GETTING THINGS LIKE INSURANC
CERTIFICATES CHANGED TO REFLEC
NEW PEOPLE AND EACH TIME THA
WOULD COST US MONEY.
>> BY NOW THE FDIC WAS TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO WITH FIRST
TIER'S ASSETS INCLUDING JESSE'
LOAN
>> WE HAD A STATUTORY OBLIGATION
TO MAXIMIZE THE ASSETS
>> THIS MAN RUNS THE DIVISIO
THAT HANDLES THE ASSETS OF
FAILED BANKS
HE SAYS BECAUSE THERE WERE S
MANY LOANS THEY HANDLED DURING
THE CRISIS AND TO TRY TO
MAXIMIZE WHAT YOU COULD GET FO
THEM, HE AND HIS TEAM TURNED T
THE PRIVATE SECTOR INCLUDING
HEDGE FUNDS AND REAL ESTAT
FIRMS.
THEY BECAME THE FDIC'S PARTNER
ON MORE THAN $26 BILLION WORTH
OF LOANS
THE AGENCY AND THE FIRMS SPLIT
THE MONEY THAT COMES IN FROM THE
LOANS.
THE FIRMS GET PAID MANAGEMEN
FEES BECAUSE THEY COLLEC
PAYMENTS, CHASE DOWN DEADBEATS
AND DEAL WITH MODIFICATION
REQUESTS LIKE JESSE'S.
>> WE'RE TRYING TO GET OUT O
THEIR WAY SO THEY CAN DO WHA
THEY'RE BEST AT DOING.
>> A FIRM CALLED SABAL FINANCIAL
WAS ONE OF THE FDIC'S PARTNERS
IN JESSE'S LOAN.
CEO PAT JACKSON SAYS HIS FIR
DOESN'T DO BUSINESS LIKE A BANK.
>> I DON'T HAVE A REGULATO
LOOKING OVER MY SHOULDER SAYING,
HEY, YOU'VE GOT TO DO IT THI
WAY OR THAT WAY.
>> DOES THAT MEAN YOU CAN BE A
LITTLE MORE AGGRESSIVE WIT
BORROWERS THAN A REGULATED BAN
COULD?
>> BANKS IN GENERAL STILL LOOK
AT THEIR BORROWERS IS THAT I
HAVE A RELATIONSHIP, I'M A
COMMUNITY BANK AND THEY TAKE A
DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW ABOU
COLLECTIONS THAN PERHAPS W
WOULD.
WE'RE SIMPLY LOOKING AT TH
VALUE OF THE COLLATERAL, THE
ABILITY OF THE BORROWER TO PAY
AND IT'S THAT SIMPLE
>> FIRMS LIKE JACKSON'S HAVE
ONLY ONE INCENTIVE, TO MAXIMIZ
THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THEY MAKE.
JESSE BELIEVES THAT GAVE SABAL
AND HIS PARTNER OAK TREE
FINANCIAL TO FORECLOSE ON TH
HOTEL BUILDING HE PUT UP A
COLLATERAL AROUND THE LOAN
THE BLOCKS AROUND IT HAV
GENTRIFIED
HE ALSO ALLEGES IN AN AFFIDAVI
FILED IN COURT THAT THE FIRM
MISLED HIM AND INSTRUCTED HIM TO
STOP MAKING PAYMENTS ON TH
LOAN
>> THEY SAID THAT BASICALLY TH
LOANS NEEDED TO BE IN DEFAULT TO
HAVE THEIR ATTENTION TO
MODIFICATION REQUEST
SO WE LET THE LOANS GO INT
DEFAULT AT THEIR SUGGESTION.
>> DID ANY ALARM BELLS GO OFF IN
YOU AT THAT POINT?
>> THEY TOLD ME THAT I WAS IN
DEFERRAL PERIOD AND THAT IT WA
EVIDENCED BY THE FACT THAT THE
WEREN'T SENDING ME ANY LOA
STATEMENTS, THEY WEREN'T SENDING
ME INVOICES.
AND I TRUSTED THEM, WHICH WAS
MISTAKE.
>> IS THAT SOMETHING THA
HAPPENS?
THAT YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO ADVISE
PEOPLE TO GET BEHIND ON THEI
LOANS?
>> NO, CERTAINLY NOT -- IF W
HAVE A BORROWIER COMING TO U
SAYING WE HAVE PROBLEMS, WE'LL
WORK WITH THEM TO FIND THE BES
OVERALL OUTCOME.
>> JACKSON ALLEGES THAT JESS
MADE UNACCEPTABLY LOW OFFERS T
SETTLE HIS DEBT.
JESSE ALLEGES THAT JACKEN IS AND
HIS COLLEAGUES WOULDN'
NEGOTIATE IN GOOD FAITH.
AS THE BATTLE ESCALATING JESSE
TURNED TO HELP TO THE FDIC
THE AGENCY HAS ENFORCEMENT POWER
OVER THE FINANCIAL FIRMS LIK
SABAL AND OAK TREE CAPITAL THA
IT PARTNERS WITH
THE FDIC BRETT EDWARDS WANTS
BORROWERS TO COME TO HIM IF THEY
HAVE COMPLAINTS.
>> BECAUSE WE WANT TO HEAR ABOUT
IT, WE WANT TO INVESTIGATE IT.
THERE'S A LOT OF CONTROLS WE
HAVE IN PLAY
WE DO ANNUAL AUDITS, WE DO SIT
VISITS
WE THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATE AL
COMPLAINTS
>> BUT WHEN JESSE WROTE AT LEAST
TWO LETTERS TO THE FDI
DETAILING HIS CONCERNS AND MAD
DOZENS OF PHONE CALLS TO THE
AGENCY, THE FDIC REPLIED THA
THERE WAS NOTHING IT COULD DO.
AND ITS INVESTIGATION CONSISTE
OF CONTACTING ONE OF THE
COMPANY'S JESSE ALLEGES IS
TRYING TO GRAB HIS PROPERTY.
WE PRESSED TO FIND OUT MORE FROM
THE FDIC DURING A CONFERENCE
CALL
>> WE REPORTED IT WITH THE
PERMISSION OF ALL THE PARTIES.
HERE'S HOW THE FDIC'S BRET
EDWARDS STARTED THE CALL
>> RICK AND HANNAH, THANKS FOR
DOING THIS
I'M GOING TO TURN IT OVER TO
PAT, AND HE CAN GET INTO THE
ACTUAL DETAILS OF THIS
PARTICULAR SITUATION, THANK YOU.
>> HE TURNED THE CALL OVER T
PAT AS IS PAT JACKSON OF SABAL
FINANCIAL.
ALL OF THE DETAILS ABOUT THE
CASE THAT WE LEARNED DURING THAT
CALL CAME FROM PAT JACKSON
THE FDIC DIDN'T PROVIDE AN
SPECIFIC INFORMATION
THERE'S NO WAY TO KNOW HOW MAN
BUSINESSES MAY BE IN JESSE'S
SITUATION BECAUSE NOBODY'S
KEEPING TRACK.
THERE'S AT LEAST ONE OTHER
BUSINESS IN DENVER WHEN SABAL TO
FORECLOSE ON ITS PROPERTY IT
LAID OFF DOZENS OF EMPLOYEES
OTHERS TESTIFIED BEFORE TH
HOUSE FINANCIAL SERVICES
COMMITTEE.
JESSE'S BUSINESS IS IN
BANKRUPTCY COURT
IS THAT THE COLLATERAL DAMAGE OF
2008 AND THE FINANCIAL MELTDOWN?
>> I THINK THE FDIC'S VIEW O
THAT IS WE TRIED TO DO AS GOOD A
JOB AS WE CAN GIVEN OUR STATUE
STORY MANDATE TO MAKE THIS WOR
FOR EVERYBODY, BUT I THINK THE
CONCEPT THAT THIS COULD HAVE
BEEN A PAINLESS EXERCISE, IT'S
PROBABLY JUST NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN
>> AS YOU'VE ALREADY SAID, EVE
BEFORE THE FDIC'S INVOLVEMEN
HERE, THERE WERE ISSUES.
SOME PEOPLE MIGHT LOOK AT THIS
AND SAY IT'S JESSE'S FAULT, NO
OAK TREE'S FAULT
OAK TREE'S JUST DOING WHAT THE
DO
>> THE BUSINESSES WOULDN'T B
HERE WITHOUT ME.
I BUILD THINGS
THESE PEOPLE DON'T BUILD
ANYTHING
THEY'RE OUT THERE TAKING THING
FROM PEOPLE THAT OTHER PEOPL
HAVE BUILT
>> IS THIS THE FDIC'S FAULT?
IS THIS OAK TREE'S FAULT
SABAL'S FAULT?
>> I THINK IT'S A COMBINATION OF
THE FDIC AND OAK TREE CAPITA
AND SABAL.
THIS IS THE ULTIMATE DISPLAY O
AVARICE WITHOUT CONSCIENCE
WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE AND THAT'S A
RESULT OF THE FDIC FAILING T
APPROPRIATELY OVERSEE THEI
PARTNER.
FUNDAMENTALLY IF THIS IS HOW THE
FDIC IS PROTECTING US, I DON'T
NEED THESE KIND OF PROTECTIONS
>> IT'S NOW UP TO A FEDERA
BANKRUPTCY JUDGE TO DECIDE
WHETHER JESSE KEEPS THE BUILDING
OR LOSES IT TO THE HEDGE FUN
AND REAL ESTATE FIRL
THAT RULING IS EXPECTED ON MAY
15th
>>> SEE WHAT INTERNAL DOCUMENT
REVEAL ABOUT HOW THE FEDERAL
RESERVE REACTED TO THE 200
ECONOMIC CRISIS.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBC.ORG
>>> WE RETURN NOW FOR THE LATEST
ON A STORY WE BROUGHT YO
SEVERAL WEEKS AGO, THE DEBAT
ABOUT THE AUTHENTICITY OF
DOCUMENT THAT SUGGESTS JESUS WAS
MARRIED.
WE'RE JOINED BY THE PROFESSOR OF
RELIGION AT FORDHAM UNIVERSITY
WE WERE IN THESE EXACT CHAIR
JUST BEFORE EASTER TALKING ABOUT
THIS POTENTIAL DOCUMENT THAT
COULD HAVE HUGE RAMIFICATION
FOR THE CHURCH
FIRST OF ALL, PEOPLE WHO DIDN'
WATCH THAT EPISODE OR SEE IT
ONLINE, WHAT'S THE DOCUMENT?
>> THE DOCUMENT WAS OFFERED TO
HARVARD UNIVERSITY A WHILE BACK,
A YEAR AND A HALF AGO.
A SMALL FRAGMENT, A COPT I
PAPYRUS OF JESUS REFERRING TO
WIFE
WHAT WE TALKED ABOUT LAST TIME
WAS SCIENTIFIC DATING THAT WAS
PUTTING THIS IN THE SEVENTH OR
EIGHTH CENTURY
WE TALKED ABOUT TH
RAMIFICATIONS OF THAT.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TODAY
IS REALLY MORE OLD FASHIONED
ANALYSIS OF HANDWRITIN
PALEOGRAPHY, STUFF LIKE THAT
BECAUSE WHAT HAPPENED WERE THERE
WERE OTHER DOCUMENTS IN TH
COLLECTION THAT WERE OFFERED T
HARVARD.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THEY WERE.
WE WERE TOLD THEY WERE RUN O
THE MILL GREEK COPTIC.
ONE OF THE OTHER IS FROM JOHN, A
TEXT FROM THE NEW TESTAMEN
THAT'S IN COPTIC IN THIS
FRAGMENT
WHEN THEY SCIENTIFIC DATED TO DO
THE JESUS WIFE PAPYRUS, THEY
DATED THIS TESTMENT OF JOHN.
THEY PUT THE IMAGE OF THAT OTHER
FRAGMENT UP ONLINE ON AN UPDATED
WEBSITE AT HARVARD DIVINIT
SCHOOL
PEOPLE COULD SEE THE OTHER ONE
AS WELL.
NOW HERE'S THE NEWS.
TWO SCHOLARS WORKING IN GERMANY,
ONE AMERICAN, ONE ROMANIAN, THEY
BOTH IN ANALYZING THIS OTHER
FRAGMENT, THE GOSPEL OF JOHN
FRAGMENT HAVE DEFINITIVELY SHOWN
THAT THAT ONE IS A FORGERY
>> SO IF THIS IS IN THE SAME
BATCH, LIKELY BOTH OF THEM ARE
FORGERIES.
>> RIGHT
SO THIS OTHER ONE WAS LENDIN
CREDIBILITY THAT THIS WAS A KIND
OF NORMAL COLLECTION OF SOMEON
WHO JUST HAPPENED TO FIND
BLOCKBUSTER LITTLE SCRAP WIT
THE JESUS WIFE, BUT IF THI
OTHER ONE IS A FORGERY, IT TAKES
EVERYTHING THAT WAS INITIALL
DUBIOUS ABOUT THE JESUS WIFE
FRAGMENT AND AMPLIFIES OUR DUP
DUBIOUSNESS.
I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO FIN
SCHOLARLY DEFENDERS OF THE JESUS
WIFE AFTER THIS WEEK
>> HOW DID ALL THESE SCHOLARS,
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE HARVAR
DIVINITY SCHOOL -- GET
HOODWINKED OR BAMBOOZLED
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT NOT TO
PILE ON IN CRITICISM OF TH
PROFESSOR.
OTHER SCHOLARS SAW IT AS WELL.
IT WASN'T JUST HER
THE TRUTH IS -
>> WE ALL BELIEVED IT, TOO
DON'T GET ME WRONG
>> RIGHT
I THINK IN DOCUMENTARY PAPARUS
MEANING THINGS THAT ARE NO
HOMER OR PLATO, THIS I THINK
THAT ARE HANDED DOWN THAT AR
NOT LITERARY NECESSARILY, THER
ARE A LOT MORE MISTAKES, BAD
GRAMMAR, CONFUSION ABOUT
AUTHENTICITY
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO SOMETIMES
DETERMINE WHAT IS REAL OR WHAT
IS NOT
>> SO IS HARVARD STANDING BY
THIS
>> HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL AS OF
LAST I CHECKED HAD NOT MADE
STATEMENT, YES
SO THIS IS PRETTY NEWSY NEWS
THIS IS A COUPLE DAYS SINCE THIS
HAS BROKEN
SO I WAS LOOKING AROUND.
I WAS NOT ABLE TO FIND A
STATEMENT BY HARVARD OR ANY OF
THE OTHER PROFESSIONALS THAT HAD
SEEN IT WITH THEIR OWN EYES.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS PBC "NEWSHOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY."